One of the real problems was that many of the places mentioned in the book, which I didn't know about, but many of the instructions I was given go here, go there.
I found myself spending a lot of time, in the very hot summer, looking, exploring, actually, on the present world river.
I would find that
would be men driving up to New Hill, and finally this is a train of thought, and that somebody is in the house, they're a couple things, and I would take my thought.
And it frequently took so much of my time to find these locations that I decided that I needed to do it.
The way I worked it out was that if I saw something it was interesting, I made it for it.
And then I found out that if I went into a town and went to the city office, whatever it was, they really knew where things were.
The interesting thing was that a lot of the people I spoke to, when I got to speak to a lot of people, I knew somebody who could speak to the bank of gas, or somebody in the city hall, or people on the streets, and very frequently in some of the towns, and I was, I said, why was it terrible on the streets?
I think it was terrific, and I found out that if you got to talk to them about what you were doing, and told them about the process,
They very frequently knew a lot of the history.
I did get to see a delay when that really disappeared probably within 10 years after I had been here.
I saw the mills.
I saw the .
I worked in housing.
even if they were capital cities.
I experienced, uh, even in the town, it just doesn't have to be.
Somebody from New York is quite extraordinary.
Um, I met, I met faces that I set up on the site, saying, well, I don't want to talk.
And you know Long River is not, there's some things that are a little bit interesting in this, you know, you've got to kind of make your opportunity.
You've got to find those things that are hard enough, hard enough, work well, perhaps.
And that's the way I proceeded.
It really was that I could do the work.
I had to probably call New York and do it once.
And then, you know, just keep it up to the people.
And I had no practical idea of how you did illustrations for a book.
It was just like, say, my book was a sign of the knowledge.
I used to be surprised on the work.
It was a brand new thing.
And I was thinking I shouldn't .
I was quite lonely, and I took an error yesterday.
We think it's quite a good thing.
It's a great idea.
I wasn't married, but I was on the call to New York as well.
And finally, after about 14 days,
And nobody could stop, nobody could continue, nobody could anything, right?
I figured if I was going to deal with my own problems in doing the work, I'm going to not call New York anymore.
I headed back.
And one of the cheapest I had was returning the rent-to-car in Boston.
I kept on circling the Boston.
I don't know what you said.
A lot of stories.
I went 28.
I had no one.
I actually thought there was a little bit left over.
And, um, when I had to go home, and I was going to rush to catch the train, and while the violin line is a first suit to come, you turn the rod, which is a particular rare.
And I got out of the train and came back to New York.
And from that point on, I didn't see what I did.
And then he just kind of designed
Well, I was given the opportunity, however, to find a jacket, and if you can.
And the title changed, and the chief complaint was, William Able.
And my sister, well, what is the problem?
Is it murder after my name?
What they need to do with my name now?
As far as the money was concerned, well, you know, we're talking about .
If we could do whatever we get, just try to be .
We are going to be talking with him.
We were kind of treated differently.
We were a necessary part of the United States.
I know I had this drive.
I just couldn't.
And there they were.
You know, I could look at them all the time.
And not all the other drawings, all the drawings that were used there
And looking at them now, I realize that the stuff that I really thought was not worth it at all.
Can I ask you a question?
I brought a little bit on what is it now?
The other thing that I wanted to say is.
All right.
I wrote well to this because I wasn't an art director, it was easy to do, and I spent all my time inside just for the chance to get our co-op here.
It was a real refreshing experience to create change, and it was really a delightful experience.
Well now, I think in my limited knowledge of the book series, of course, it was an early attempt, I think, to make a search for the book or the illustrator, and to do this kind of batching at the time when we could hear it.
It was always a writer about the river, plus, as we experienced, illustrators who were knowledgeable about the river and the region as well.
I'm not sure, but if you think of it in America, it isn't trying out to be quite as uniform as .
I'd like to echo Harry to the comments.
The experience is certainly unique.
I had a great pleasure at this.
I have to say that I've probably got more accolades and more, let's say, local favorite leads from that project that I've gotten to almost anything else I've done.
I've got a job, I've got a real noteworthy stuff.
Also, I did learn from my fellow artists who were
The interesting thing was that
This was experimental, apparently, all the way through in a different way.
The audience that were selected was rather unique.
It was not true.
It would be a different thing.
We have run into this project people who didn't realize that the books they were writing were the books they were illustrating .
And that, to me, will be 50 years later .
I don't know that that was possibly .
Well, I think that while we're united, we were not .
We were .
.
actually wasn't.
But all of us are much bigger.
You know, a company involved in creating this document about American history.
And it wasn't really until that, three years ago.
But I began to think about .
I didn't know about .
So I guess .
Please conclude our session, and also to get the final observations there.
Actually, there are no final observations.
.
It's been very interesting to me, having been both an illustrator and an author and hearing a sad story about how low the pay was for pictures.
I'm a little aware of the fact that for the authors to pay was very low as well.
If they counted the amount of money per hour that they were paying for these painted scripts, maybe it'd come to about 30 or 40 cents an hour sometimes.
It's pretty amazing.
But that's the publishing business.
and what you're writing.
The Valley of the Dolls is something that's going to be a political or political failure.
Both books, and very well by history, many of them are published on the public service purpose, and I think that was the case with history.
Certainly, it was a very brave story to undertake,
many years of expression, certainly they couldn't have had a very large budget to carry this out.
And I'm sure one of the reasons why it was extended over so many years was because their budget was built and couldn't afford to do some of them before.
In looking at this in an overview,
Certainly, this project is different from any other I've come across.
It was made to match the river.
And in the same way, to find artists who either were from the area where the river was so that they could do or not
I was struck as I ran down the roster of names of the artists.
When the first group they were, usually a publisher had a fairly circumscribed group of people that they called for.
And they're usually professional filmmakers
were known for what they do.
So they're getting very good work.
In this case, they gamble a lot.
I think they would score a appropriate artist with the subject.
But that's the problem with the topic of the artist with the subject.
And they grew upon people who were not necessarily illustrators, but were artists who were referred to as capital pages.
John Stewart, Crowley, and other artists who were fragile and painters.
And their success in doing their assignments, I would like to say this very uneven.
I think that he took this project very casually.
And he certainly didn't present a lot of time and .
It's too bad because I admire his work a lot to be certainly capable of doing an important documentary series of illustrations from the book.
On the other hand, Andrew White, I think, did a top notch job.
He's very serious about it.
It starts when it combines with artistic ability.
In between, there are lots of degrees in my mind of success in demonstrating the book.
Because of the economics of the project, the paper was almost all paper.
And it would not take half a month.
It would take half a month.
So it was used to
working in other mediums, for instance, or oils, whatever.
So there were some .
Some artists have been adapted to that limitation by trying to go ahead and go about before.
And it was a kind of a learning on the job process.
And some of those learning problems on everything didn't work.
But all of them all, I think it impacts from color and
interest to this series because it has to be a variety of color and diversity.
And I think it's appropriate to the subject of the river itself.
So we're doing all the books.
It's a very enjoyable experience.
Please hear that many of them are still going to be in prison.
And I just appreciate these chapters.
I'll put some comments here about this.
Thank you.
The vast majority of the books that are published, they say, don't have any illustrations at home.
And I think the extra effort that was put forward by the publishers and so forth to get more interested in the books, it's a wonderful thing to do.
We are going
As Dr. Billington said this morning in his remarks, Dr. Orson was the creator of the Center for the Book.
And I know he did all kinds of programs.
Now, before we go, one more round of applause for our illustrators.
I had a note today from Raymond Holden, the author of the Merrimack, and I thought he would be pleased to hear what he has to say.
Among other things, the illustrations, both in selection of subjects and in execution, couldn't be better.
I hope you will tell the artist that I think so.
So we did have our
relationship there with the artist and the illustrator.
And Aaron, thank you for sharing this with us.
And with Aaron's permission, I've also made a copy of this letter for sale.
Oh, nice.
I also would like to thank Tace Barnes for a photograph that she, I've got it in another file, I'm afraid, but the photograph that she had
uh of carl carver and here's the author of the niagara braver braver braver braver and we're very happy to have that as well i'd like by now to introduce uh a few words uh daniel horseman who is the librarian of congress american
Well, thanks, John.
As I have the library, I'd like once again to thank all of you for keeping alive a great institution and a greater institution.
The sentiment of the book is more needed than ever today.
And it's vigorous to do, of course,
the leadership of John Cole, who has done so much and has been committed to doing this meeting today, and all of you who are participating in the enterprise of keeping folks alive.
I do want to thank you for coming.
Ruth and I are very pleased that we have a small role in bringing it to dealing with this institution,
When the Star Institute is in the Denver, you know what will come of them, and you can't take credit for what becomes of them.
What do you get to blame now?
Well, we've been asked for a little bit.
I don't even want to.
But, I was to be with a word that I can't get controlled by the Liberty Series that we're celebrating here.
and that is that some books are undeservedly forgotten.
None are undeservedly remembered.
And we are here today for the remembering of books that deserve to be remembered.
Thank you.
I would like now to call on Simon Michael Bessie to say that he would like to say, perhaps from an editorial slant, but perhaps general comment.
John lives very dangerously, as you probably observe.
He says to almost everybody, after he's tried to say what they're going to say, he says, well, you can say whatever they're going to say.
Very brave John.
You've heard from writers and what good storytellers they are.
You've heard from illustrators, artists, and what realists they are.
Now you're going to hear a bit from a publisher, head of his publisher, Chase Barnes, who's been responsible for this series for its last
the process of 10 years.
By the way, I'm a book publisher.
That's why I'm here.
And I also, thanks to Dan Worcester, who is my oldest and closest friend.
I've been called chairman or something like that and sent for the book.
I assure you that there's never been a more honoristic non-owner of chairmanship in the world because Dan's starting here.
And since then, John's done everything.
In the course of introducing, not introducing, but giving way to Bates Barnes, I want to tell you how I learned what the relationship between the writer and the publisher is supposed to be.
I had published a book by a Dutch writer named John de Hartog, whom I had not yet met, and when he sent me a second manuscript,
although that she was by that time writing in English.
I read it with great pleasure and wrote back to her saying I thought it was a wonderful book and I'd be honored to publish.
And I had a couple of thoughts about an editorial.
And I got back almost by returning mail the following letter.
Dear Mark, I'm not sure you understand the relationship between the writer and the publisher, what their roles are.
Paragraphs.
The writer writes.
Period.
Paragraph.
The publisher applauds, publishes, and sells as many copies as you can.
Your loving friend Young.
Okay, I thought you did a great big award in that.
Come tell us a bit about what you did.
Carol, I never thought I would be a candidate to speak again when you called me in 1992 and invited me to tell you what I knew about the Records of America here.
I went through work for Hope Reinhardt in 1966, having spent eight years at Harper as a brother.
which then became popular as well.
And now, we don't know what it is for coming, but similarly, Paul Bryan, Harvey, Winston, when I joined them back in September, years ago, task of managing the editing.
CBS joined them that very same month,
having gotten Mr. Markerson's stock, and they began their first inroads into publishing.
So my job of managing the editor started out with the task of seeing who the editors were.
The editorial director was Arthur Cohen, an extraordinary individual who was an author.
a publisher, and best known in publishing circles at that time as the publisher of Mark Lane.
Now, Mark Lane's right to judgment was the first time that Cole Reinhart had seen anything but Robert Frost and a number of other very important theories,
They were trying to bring a new look to the whole field.
And so day after day, month after month, the cast of characters began to change.
And my job moved from managing the editor to becoming the executive editor and finally senior editor.
And during that time, I was privileged to publish
of the Riddles of America series, to meet Carl Conner, and to know Jean Crawford.
And the fact of the matter is, the wife of the Riddles of America series began with Constance Lindsay Skinner in 1935.
She presented that idea to John Farrell.
And he said, absolutely, my dear.
go with it.
And she was one of the few women, well, the only women in publishing at that time.
And so she conceived a series of 24 titles and unfortunately did not live to see but five women to read public.
It would be interesting to know how many she actually signed.
Carl Karma was
the editor of the series from Fennar, as far as I can tell.
Certainly Fergie Allen was involved.
And always, from 1945, Gene Crawford was the direct link to the publishing house.
The editor, the publisher, you do whatever you need to do.
If you've got
If you've got a writer that takes no direction, that needs no direction, that wants no direction, and has a grip on what he's doing, then he runs with you.
Then there are those that don't deliver again and again and again.
And finally, as in the case with the illustrators, the same thing happens.
Again, this works constantly, this idea.
that the art direction would originate from her or from the art director of the publishing house.
It was a woman at the time of her initial book.
When I was there, Ben Thayer had just retired.
He was doing his own jackets at that point, and we had several art directors, Bob Brady being good.
the last one during my journey.
The publication of the Rivers of America is a miracle.
It is a miracle we are here together.
And it truly transcends all other published experiences, series as far as I know.
How many other volumes of 65 original titles are there?
People have done 10 books in a series or 20 books in a series.
They have bought the rights to books that were already published in other venues.
As far as editing is concerned, I have done a little bit of everything.
sort of writing it myself and illustrating it myself.
I pitched the book to the sales people, and I've been on the road with the authors, and I've tried to apologize for the fact that I couldn't get the head of the department's attention, which will happen as things go on.
But it is an extraordinary experience, and now
I left publishing in 1979.
I find that I have an ongoing institute in history.
I have done some freelance etiquette and organizing books here and there.
In the mid-'80s, I published with the town of Santa Barbara, History of Santa Barbara, which our local organization
had a manuscript written by the local librarian who had been born and raised in a fascinating town that was the first port of New York and a quailing village coming forward in the 1840s.
And so we raised the money and we illustrated the book with photographs and drawings and maps and justice
Sanction of the Library of Congress.
And so publishing is going on.
Finally, to come here today, I called my friends for publishing on Monday.
And the first one was Jack McRae.
He is now editor, director, publisher of, or editor-in-chief of Polish.
I worked with Jack at Harper in the early
And there, the first germ, the first time we ever heard the word ecology appeared.
And we were doing natural history books then, and some history books, and the head of the department now called Ordway P. Have a passion for education and business.
So when I called Jack for the first time in 10 years, he called me right back and he said that he was interested and fascinated to know that a third of the books are still in print.
Muriel was coming today and has been tremendously helpful in providing information about your
got the right information and said that the Audubon Society had talked to him about the possibility of re-issuing or continuing with the series.
He is the possibility for the center because this is his passion, our own way to pass our national history and the history of our country.
And Tom Wallace, who's an agent and one of the trustees that he's doing for Monday School.
So it's been a real...
It's a thrill for me to see all the people I have talked to on the phone and some of you I've met.
And I appreciate your interaction and the opportunity to be here.
Thank you, Dave.
We are going to reconvene in, well, let's say, 10 minutes next door, perhaps, where it's the West Dining Room.
If you stand in here, you went by Dining Room A, so you'll see folks going in and try to get you in.